This document will guide you through the prerequisites and commands necessary to setup and preview the portal project with complete Stripe integration, locally on your computer.

## Prerequisites

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - You can use any other editor of choice but this guide will assume you are using VS Code
- [VS Code Dev Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)
  - This will allow you to run the project in a containerized environment

## Project Structure

Within the `packages` folder, you will find the three projects that make up this scenario:

- `portal` - The web app portal
- `api` - The web app backend
- `stripe` - The Stripe backend

## Local Development

_Note: This scenario has been optimised for use with [VS Code Remote Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers), and contains definitions to setup the PostgreSQL database that Strapi uses, and this guide makes the assumption that you will use the dev container._

### Install the required Node.js packages

The repo is a monorepo, and thus contains all the components from all the scenarios. To support this [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/using-npm/workspaces) has been configured, and as a result, all scenarios packages will be installed.

To install all packages required run the following command:

```bash
npm install --workspaces
```

_Note: The devcontainer will automatically execute this command on creation, but you can execute it manually if you wish to see the installation happen._

### Configuring Stripe

This scenario uses [Stripe](https://stripe.com) to handle payments. To use Stripe, you will need to create an account and obtain a set of API keys.

> Note: it's possible to run the app without configuring Stripe at all: in that case, the payments will be mocked and accepted directly, so you can still test the flow.

1. Create a free Stripe account here: https://dashboard.stripe.com/register
2. Once you have created your account, you will be redirected to the Stripe dashboard. Click on the `Developers` menu item, and then click on the `API keys` tab on the left.
3. Copy the `Public key` and `Secret key` and paste them into a new `.stripe.env` file in the root folder, like this:

```bash
STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY=<your public key>
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=<your secret key>
```

4. Click on the `Webhooks` tab on the left, and then select the `Add endpoint` button. For the endpoint URL, enter `http://dummy.com` and choose the `Select events` option. Search for `checkout`, and enable the events `checkout.session.completed` and `checkout.session.expired`. Then click on the `Add endpoint` button. **Note that the endpoint URL will need to be updated later on.**

5. Copy the `Signing secret key` from your webhook and paste it into the `.stripe.env` file, like this:

```bash
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=<your webhook key>
```

### Provisioning the Azure resources

Once your Stripe keys have been configured, you can provision the Azure resources required for this scenario. To do this, run the following command:

```bash
# Export the environment variables from the .stripe.env file
export $(cat .stripe.env | xargs)

# Login to azd (only required once the first time)
azd auth login

# Provision infrastructure and the azd development environment
azd provision

# Package the app using the environment variables in .azure/env + deploy the code on Azure
azd deploy
```

Except for the first command, the deployment commands are the same as the ones used in the [Deploy to Azure](../README.md#deploy-to-azure) guide.

After the deployment is complete, you will need to update the Stripe webhook endpoint URL with the one generated by the deployment.

1. First, run the following command to get the endpoint URL:
    ```bash
    # Create a .env file with the environment variables from the azd environment
    azd env get-values > .env

    # Get the endpoint URL
    source .env && echo "Your Stripe webhook endpoint URL is:\n$SERVICE_STRIPE_URI/stripe-api/stripe/webhook"
    ```

2. Copy the resulting URL, and then go back to the Stripe dashboard, and select on the `Webhooks` tab on the left.
3. Pick on the webhook you created earlier, click on the `...` button then select `Update details`.
4. Replace the `http://dummy.com` value with the URL you copied earlier, and then click on the `Update endpoint` button.

You should now have a fully working Stripe test integration.

> **Note:** if you want to test the Stripe integration, you can use the [Stripe test cards](https://stripe.com/docs/testing#cards).

### Starting the Stripe service

To start the Stripe service, run the following commands:

```bash
npm run docker:build --workspace=stripe-api
npm run docker:run --workspace=stripe-api
```

This will build the stripe container and run it locally, listening on port `http://localhost:4242`.

As an alternative if you do not want to use Docker, you can also run the Stripe service directly:

```bash
npm run build:ts --workspace=stripe-api
npm run start --workspace=stripe-api
```

### Starting the API

To start the API, run the following command:

```bash
npm start --workspace=api
```

> Note: if you're not using the devcontainer or Codespaces, you need to have the [Azure Functions Core Tools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?tabs=v4%2Cmacos%2Ccsharp%2Cportal%2Cbash#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools) installed.

The API will then be running at `http://localhost:7071`.

### Starting the portal

To start the portal, run the following commands:

```bash
npm start
```

This will run the Static Web Apps CLI emulator, listening on `http://localhost:4280`.
You can then open this in your browser to test the application.

### Running in GitHub Codespaces

An alternative way to run the environment is using [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces), which will use the devcontainer definition, but create a remote containerised environment, rather than running the environment locally.

_Note: GitHub Codespaces is a paid component of GitHub. Review [the GitHub Codespaces billing](https://docs.github.com/en/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-github-codespaces) before using it._

To run in GitHub Codespaces, the machine will need at least 4 CPUs and 8GB of memory, which is defined in the [`devcontainer.json`](./.devcontainer/devcontainer.json) file, to ensure all the services are started.
